.TH XCONQ 6 Utah
.SH NAME
xconq - X-based strategy game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
xconq
[ options ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIXconq\fP is a multi-player strategic wargame.
Your goal is to save the world from the evil empires attempting to
take over.  You get cities, armies, airplanes, and ships with which to
accomplish your task.  Success is achieved by the neutralization or
defeat of the other sides, by any means available.  First you have to
find them!
.PP
Although the game can get complicated, to start you need only
know about the help command '?', which is valid at any time.
You start with only one city, which makes things even simpler.
The city will automatically produce a military unit, which you
will be prompted to move around.  Eventually, you will get more and
can attempt to take over other cities.
The game keeps going
until only one side is left in action;
this player is then declared the winner.
.PP
By default, \fIxconq\fP
starts up with one human (on the display in $DISPLAY) and one
machine, playing on a randomly generated 60x30 world.  Options are
available to set numbers and kinds of players, as well as the
kind of map used.  In addition, \fIxconq\fP has extensive and
elaborate facilities for building maps, scenarios, and historical
periods, resulting in a wide variety of games.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.I host:display
adds a human player to the game and assigns to the given host and display.
Players get created in the same order as they appear on the command line,
interleaved with the players created via \fB-e\fP and \fB-A\fP.
All of the player adding options may be used any number of times in any order.
.TP 5
.B \-A \fIhost:display\fP
attaches a machine player to the given display.  Ideal for those who like
to watch.
.TP 5
.B \-C
allows the machine player to play in cheat mode.  It will get a
complete update of the screen every turn.
.TP 5
.B \-e \fInumber\fP
sets the number of machine players not attached to displays.
Non-displayed machine players form alliance blocks of 5-9 countries.
.TP 5
.B \-m \fIname\fP
reads the map named \fIname\fP and starts up a game on it.
.TP 5
.B \-M \fIwidth height\fP
generates a random map of the given size.  The size must be at least 5x5,
although some periods will impose additional constraints on the lower bound.
In theory, there is no upper bound (but 200x100 is huge).
.TP 5
.B \-p \fIname\fP
reads the historical period specified by \fIname\fP, and sets everything
up for that period.
.TP 5
.B \-r
resets the list of players on the command line.  It is most useful when
placed before other player specifications, to clear out the default
players.
.TP 5
.B \-s \fIname\fP
reads a scenario with the name \fIname\fP.  A scenario sets up a particular
situation; it has a fixed number of sides that can participate.
.TP 5
.B \-t \fInumber\fP
toggles a chess-clock-like feature that limits the total time of play for
each side.  The amount is \fInumber\fP minutes per side.  Time is only counted
while actually waiting for input.
.TP 5
.B \-T \fInumber\fP
toggles a timeout that limits the length of each turn for all sides.
The amount is \fInumber\fP minutes per turn.  Time is counted
continuously.  The clock will stop updating after you have moved all
possible units, but if you then want to see how much time is left for
the other players, press ^L.
.TP 5
.B \-T \fInumber\fP
toggles a chess-clock-like feature that limits the per-round time of play for
each side.  The amount is \fInumber\fP minutes per side.
.TP 5
.B \-v
make the entire world seen by all players at the outset.
This is useful if exploration
is deemed to be time-consuming, or if the map is already known to everybody.
Some maps already have this enabled.
.\" .TP 5
.\" .B \-x
.\" allows scenarios, maps, periods, and players to be set up interactively
.\" via menus.  The menus should be self-explanatory.
.LP
In addition, \fB-B\fP and \fB-D\fP are recognized;
see the customization document for more details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 8
.B
xconq
One human on local display, one machine, 60x30 random map
.TP 8
.B
xconq -m crater
One human vs one machine, on the "crater lake" map
.TP 8
.B
xconq -e 0 blitzen:0 kzin.eel:0
Three humans.  One on the local display, one on blitzen:0 in the same
network, and another: kzin.eel:0 in another network.  60x30 random map
.TP 8
.B
xconq -e 2 -M 90 40 -A shark:0
One human, three machines (one on display shark:0), 90x40 random map
.TP 8
.B
xconq -r -e 3 -m 1987 wind:0 surfer:0 -A springs:0
Six players (4 machine, 1 on springs:0; 2 human, on wind:0 and surfer:0),
all playing on a 360x122 map of the earth with present-day cities.  Major!
.SH "X DEFAULTS"
.TP 10
.B Class / name
You may specify these resources in your .Xres (or .Xdefaults) using a
spec of the form
.sp
    XConq.Class: value
.sp 
or
.sp
    XConq.name: value
.sp
and you can mix classes and names in the spec.  This is just standard X
resource stuff.
.PP
The following resources have a prefix of
.B XConq.Map.Period / xconq.map.%s
\.
.TP 10
.B HexDisplayMode / hexDisplayMode
This is how \fIxconq\fP will display the terrain hexes.  Possible values
are \fBFullHex\fP, \fBBorderHex\fP, \fBTerrIcons\fP, and \fBBothIcons\fP.
.TP 10
.B Background / ownColor
The color for your own units.
.TP 10
.B Background / alternateColor
I forgot
.TP 10
.B Background / differentColor
Reminders would be appreciated
.TP 10
.B Foreground / borderColor
It shouldn't be hard to figure out anyway
.TP 10
.B Foreground / grayColor
but my boss is looking over my shoulder
.TP 10
.B Foreground / enemyColor
The color of enemy units
.TP 10
.B Foreground / neutralColor
The color of neutral units
.TP 10
.B Foreground / goodColor
The color of allied units
.TP 10
.B Foreground / badColor
And I really shouldn't play this game until I've finished the project
.TP 10
.B Font / textFont
Font for all text.
.TP 10
.B Font / iconFont
Font for miscellaneous pictures.
.TP 10
.B Font/ helpFont
Font for the help pages.
.SH AUTHORS
Stan Shebs (shebs@cs.utah.edu)
.sp
Version 5.4 by Greg Fisher (fisher@cs.rutgers.edu)
.sp
Version 5.5 by Robert Forsman (thoth@lightning.cis.ufl.edu)
.sp
Version 6.0 in the works.  It doesn't work too well yet, Stan's still
fixing things.
.SH FILES
\fIsave.xconq\fP	saved game
.br
\fIemergency.save.xconq\fP	game saved after program crash
.br
\fIstats.xconq\fP	performance statistics for a game
.br
\fIcmds.xconq\fP	listing of commands
.br
\fIparms.xconq\fP	listing of units and their characteristics
.br
\fIview.xconq\fP	printable version of the map display
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.map\fP	 predefined maps
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.scn\fP	 predefined scenarios
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.per\fP	 predefined historical periods
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.onx\fP	 X10 fonts
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.bdf\fP	 X11 uncompiled fonts
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/*.snf\fP	 X11 compiled fonts
.br
\fI/local/lib/x11r4/xconq/xconq.news\fP	 news about features/additions
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.IR "Liberating the World (Made Simple)"
.br
.IR "Customizing Xconq (Made Somewhat Simple)"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If a given display cannot be opened due to a missing \fIxhost(1)\fP command,
\fIxconq\fP will quit with a message "Error opening display host:0".
.PP
If the icon fonts cannot be found or opened, text will be substituted.
This is usually pretty yucky.
.PP
If the map is too small for the desired number of players, \fIxconq\fP will
complain about not being able to place units.
.PP
There are some panic messages which usually precede a core dump by a few
milliseconds.
.PP
Incorrect combinations of periods, maps, and scenarios
can generate a host of different error messages.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Since some periods/maps/scenarios are interdependent, they must be specified
in a particular order on the command line (period first usually).
.PP
Does not cope gracefully (it doesn't really cope at all) with
insufficient memory.
.PP
Some annoying behaviors are actually features.
.PP
Feel free to report bugs to xconq@uunet.uu.net.  There are people
there willing (if not able) to help you.  If you wish to listen in on
the list you may join by sending mail to xconq-request@uunet.uu.net.
